7.4 POSITIONS
At the moment the ball is hit by the server, each team must be positioned 
within its own court (except the server). The players of the receiving 
team must be in the rotational order at the service hit.
The players of the serving team, however, are free to occupy any 
position at the service hit.

7.4.1 The positions of the players are numbered as follows:
7.4.1.1 the three players along the net are front-row players and occupy 
positions 4 (front-left), 3 (front-centre) and 2 (front-right);
7.4.1.2 the other three are back-row players occupying positions 5 (back-left), 6 
(back-centre) and 1 (back-right).
7.4.2 Relative positions between players:
7.4.2.1 each back-row player must be positioned further back from the centre 
line than the corresponding front-row player;
7.4.2.2 the front-row players and the back-row players, respectively, must be 
positioned laterally in the order indicated in Rule 7.4.1.
7.4.3 The positions of players are determined and controlled according to the 
positions of their feet contacting the ground (the last contact with the 
floor fixes the player’s position), as follows:

7.4.3.1 each back-row player must be level with or have at least a part of one 
foot further from the centre line than the front foot of the corresponding 
front-row player;


7.4.3.2 each right (left) side player must be level with or have at least a part of 
one foot closer to the right (left) sideline than the foot further from the 
right (left) side line of the other players in that row.

7.4.4 After the service hit, the players of both teams may move around and 
occupy any position on their court and the free zone.

7.5 POSITIONAL FAULT
7.5.1 The team commits a positional fault, if any player is not in his/her correct 
position at the moment the ball is hit by the server. When a player is on 
court through illegal substitution, and play restarts, this is counted as a 
positional fault with the consequences of an illegal substitution.

7.5.2 If the server commits a serving fault at the moment of the service hit, 
the server's fault is counted before a positional fault.

7.5.3 If the service becomes faulty after the service hit, it is the positional fault 
that will be counted.


7.5.4 A positional fault leads to the following consequences: 
7.5.4.1 the team is sanctioned with a point and service to the opponent;
7.5.4.2 players' positions must be rectified. 

7.6 ROTATION
7.6.1 The rotational order is determined by the team's starting line-up and 
controlled with the service order and players' positions throughout the 
set.

7.6.2 When the receiving team has gained the right to serve, its players rotate 
one position clock-wise: the player in position 2 rotates to position 1 to 
serve, the player in position 1 rotates to position 6, etc.

7.7 ROTATIONAL FAULT D11 (13)
7.7.1 A rotational fault is committed when the SERVICE is not made according 
to the rotational order. It leads to the following consequences in order:

7.7.1.1 the scorer stops play by the buzzer; the opponent gains a point and 
next service; 
If the rotational fault is determined only after the completion of the rally 
which started with a rotational fault, only a single point is awarded to 
the opponent, regardless of the result of the rally played.

7.7.1.2 the rotational order of the faulty team must be rectified; 7.6.1
7.7.2 Additionally, the scorer should determine the exact moment when the 
fault was committed, and all points scored subsequently by the team at 
fault must be cancelled. The opponent's points remain valid.
If that moment cannot be determined, no point(s) cancellation takes 
place, and a point and service to the opponent is the only sanction.